# nfl-fantasy-ml-model
This project can be split up into two sections, the goal of section one is to identify meaningful patterns in player statistics in order to predict weekly or total season fantasy football player scores for the 2026 season. Section 2 will involve the creation of a tool (Python script or possible UI) that utilizes the results of the data mining section to assist a user in drafting players for a 12 person snake draft.
## Section 1 details:
Player statistics from the previous NFL regular season games will be collected for all QBs, RBs, TEs and WRs. Weekly fantasy football scores for each player will also be collected. Defenses and kickers will be excluded from the analysis since demand is lower since every draft member usually only picks one of each and the difference in points for the top 12 picks for both of these positions does not vary much generally. There is a distinct model for each position since the statistics that predict how many fantasy points a QB will score are likely to be much different than for a TE. Players who are entering the NFL in 2026 have been modeled based on their collegiate statistics. A college indicator flag is included in the training data so the model can learn about the specific impact collegiate stats have on first year NFL performance. A large contributor to predictions are the draft statistics (Overall pick, round...etc.), since the 2026 NFL draft does not occur until late April 2026, college player predictions will be subpar until I have access to drafting data. In this first prototype, draft statistics have been imputed as the median statistics for any player entering the NFL this year.
## Section 2 details:
I would like to create a UI in Python that will allow a user to take the fitted model for each position and leverage the predictions in a fantasy draft. The UI will simply request the user to select a position and it will return the best possible choice for that position based on predicted points. The user will then have the choice to either accept the player or to veto a pick if the user does not agree with the model output or if the pick has already been taken. The models/UI will not have any say in the order/quantity of each position selected by the user as there are already established strategies for draft order.

